Port MASTG-TEST-0071 (Testing UIActivity Sharing) to MASTG v2 (#3780)
OWASP/mastg: knowledge/ios/MASVS-PLATFORM/MASTG-KNOW-0081.md

title: UIActivity Sharing
---

> Starting with iOS 6, apps can share data (items) via the system-wide Share Activity Sheet using the [`UIActivityViewController`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiactivityviewcontroller) API. From a user perspective, this is the familiar "Share" button available throughout iOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with iOS 6, apps can share data (items) via the system-wide "Share Sheet" using "Activity Views" which are implemented in the[`UIActivityViewController`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiactivityviewcontroller) API. 

From a user perspective, this is the familiar "Share" button available throughout iOS. The following figure shows such a "Share Sheet" when sharing a link in the Safari browser:
```

Starting with iOS 6, apps can share data (items) via the system-wide Share Activity Sheet using the [`UIActivityViewController`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiactivityviewcontroller) API. From a user perspective, this is the familiar "Share" button available throughout iOS.

> <img src="Images/Chapters/0x06h/share_activity_sheet.png" width="100%" />

Reviewer: <img  alt="UiActivityView" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/231515a1-5e7b-4a9f-8242-07f8edca0804" width="50%" />

> ## UIActivityViewController

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Initializing a `UIActivityViewController`
```

> You create a `UIActivityViewController` by calling [`init(activityItems:applicationActivities:)`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiactivityviewcontroller/init(activityitems:applicationactivities:)), passing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers can create a `UIActivityViewController` by calling [`init(activityItems:applicationActivities:)`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiactivityviewcontroller/init(activityitems:applicationactivities:)), passing:
```

See https://mas.owasp.org/contributing/5_Style_Guide/#gender-neutrality

- `activityItems`: An array of data objects to share. Items can be of any type that conforms to `UIActivityItemSource` or is directly shareable (for example, `String`, `URL`, `UIImage`).
- `applicationActivities`: An optional array of custom [`UIActivity`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiactivity) subclass instances representing app-specific services.

> ```swift

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following example initates a `UIActivityViewController` used to share a `string` and an `URL`: 

```swift
```

let activityVC = UIActivityViewController(
    activityItems: ["Hello, World!", URL(string: "https://example.com")!],
    applicationActivities: nil
)
present(activityVC, animated: true)
```

## Built-in Activity Types

The system provides a set of built-in activity types defined in [`UIActivity.ActivityType`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiactivity/activitytype):

> - `airDrop`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following list shows an excerpt of the supported types:

- `airDrop`
```

- `assignToContact`
- `copyToPasteboard`
- `mail`
- `message`
- `postToFacebook`
- `postToTwitter`
- `saveToCameraRoll`
- `addToReadingList`

> A full list is available in the [UIActivity.ActivityType documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiactivity/activitytype). The set of available activity types may grow with each iOS release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The set of available activity types may grow with each iOS release.
```

Already mentioned and linked above.

## Excluding Activity Types

> You can restrict which activity types are presented to the user by setting the [`excludedActivityTypes`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiactivityviewcontroller/excludedactivitytypes) property on the `UIActivityViewController` instance before presenting it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to restrict which activity types are presented to the user by setting the [`excludedActivityTypes`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiactivityviewcontroller/excludedactivitytypes) property on the `UIActivityViewController` instance before presenting it:
```
